High in this video we're going to switch to some code and look at truncation ceiling and floor that
we looked at in the previous video.
So the first thing is we're going to need the trunk function from the math module.
So from math we'll import trunk and you can always as usual do help if you want.
On that it will tell you exactly what it does it takes some real numbers.
In this case we're going to use floats but could use other real number types as well.
And it will convert it to an integral type and an integer in particular.
So let's try this let's say we're going to do trunk of ten point three.
Look at the ten point five.
Kind of halfway between 10 and 11 and then we'll even look at ten point nine.
So it doesn't matter how close or how far we are from 10 as long as that prefix is 10 before the decimal
point the truncation will just return the integer portion.
So this isn't rounding.
This is just basically ditching everything after the decimal point.
Now the end constructive.
So we do have help on.
You'll notice that it can take a constructor where X is can be a number one in particular it can be
a float.
So we can also do the same thing we can say and ten point four and ten point five and in ten point nine.
And you'll notice that it returns 10 10 and 10 in each case as.
The constructor actually uses truncation when you pass it a real number.
OK.
So that's truncation.
Next one we have is flawed.
And again the math module has the floor function so we can say from math import floor.
And again if you want to help on floor and it just tells you what it does.
OK.
So this is the largest integer less than equal to x as we saw in the previous video.
So we can look at the floor of ten point three and the floor of ten point four groups of ten point five
and the floor of ten point nine.
And again we would get 10 10 and 10.
So you might think oh well this is the same thing as truncation.
Not really.
Right.
The difference is because of negative numbers.
So if we look at the truncation of negative ten point four negative ten point five or negative ten point
nine.
How about I put trunked around each one like to help.
And
trunk.
OK.
So negative 10 negative 10 negative 10.
As we said with truncation we'll just ditch everything after the decimal point and we're left with just
the integral portion of the numbers.
However if we take this and let's go ahead and I'll copy paste and then I'll change these the two floor.
And again I'm just going to copy paste
then here's what happens.
The floor of negative ten point four is negative 11.
The truncation is negative 10 but the floor is negative 11.
We saw that in the previous video.
All right so just be careful Floren truncation doesn't mean the same thing.
And it does when the numbers are positive.
But it stops meaning the same thing as being equal when the numbers are negative and then the last one
we have is seeing.
So from the math simple.
Seal.
OK.
And again we can get help on that method.
So here's the function returns the ceiling of x as an integral This is the smallest integer greater
than or equal to x.
Again we saw that in the previous video so we can look at the ceiling of ten point four the ceiling
of ten point five and the ceiling of ten point nine.
And those will all be 11.
Right it's going to look for the next basically integer.
That's greater than that those numbers that we have here.
Now of course when we deal with negative numbers again we always have to be a little careful with that
because what is the negative number that's greater than negative ten point four or negative ten point
five or negative ten point nine.
You know that's the next step up.
Well it is negative 10 right.
Because think of the number line.
Negative 10 is greater than negative ten point four.
And that's what we're looking for.
Right.
So we're looking for the smallest integer that's greater than or equal to the number that we pass into
the function.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video where we start looking at the round function.